Swift Loops Jobs  SENDFiles  Whiteboard  Net Meeting Tools  Articles Facebook Google+ Twitter Linkedin YouTube Home Tutorials Library Coding Ground Tutor Connect Videos Search Swift Tutorial Swift - Home Swift - Overview Swift - Environment Swift - Basic Syntax Swift - Data Types Swift - Variables Swift - Optionals Swift - Constants Swift - Literals Swift - Operators Swift - Decision Making Swift - Loops Swift - Strings Swift - Characters Swift - Arrays Swift - Dictionaries Swift - Functions Swift - Closures Swift - Enumerations Swift - Structures Swift - Classes Swift - Properties Swift - Methods Swift - Subscripts Swift - Inheritance Swift - Initialization Swift - Deinitialization Swift - ARC Overview Swift - Optional Chaining Swift - Type Casting Swift - Extensions Swift - Protocols Swift - Generics Swift - Access Control Swift Useful Resources Swift - Quick Guide Swift - Useful Resources Swift - Discussion Selected Reading Developer's Best Practices Questions and Answers Effective Resume Writing HR Interview Questions Computer Glossary Who is Who Swift - Loops Advertisements Previous Page Next Page   There may be a situation when you need to execute a block of code several number of times. In general statements are executed sequentially: The first statement in a function is executed first, followed by the second, and so on. Programming languages provide various control structures that allow for more complicated execution paths. A loop statement allows us to execute a statement or group of statements multiple times. Following is the general from of a loop statement in most of the programming languages ? Swift programming language provides the following kinds of loop to handle looping requirements. Click the following links to check their detail. S.No Loop Type & Description 1 for-in This loop performs a set of statements for each item in a range, sequence, collection, or progression. 2 for loop Executes a sequence of statements multiple times and abbreviates the code that manages the loop variable. 3 while loop Repeats a statement or group of statements while a given condition is true. It tests the condition before executing the loop body. 4 do...while loop Like a while statement, except that it tests the condition at the end of the loop body. Loop Control Statements Loop control statements change execution from its normal sequence. When execution leaves a scope, all automatic objects that were created in that scope are destroyed. Swift supports the following control statements. Click the following links to check their detail. S.No Control Statement & Description 1 continue statement This statement tells a loop to stop what it is doing and start again at the beginning of the next iteration through the loop. 2 break statement Terminates the loop statement and transfers execution to the statement immediately following the loop. 3 fallthrough statement The fallthrough statement simulates the behavior of swift switch to C-style switch. Previous Page Print Next Page   Advertisements Write for us FAQ's Helping Contact © Copyright 2017. All Rights Reserved. go