Swift Decision Making Jobs  SENDFiles  Whiteboard  Net Meeting Tools  Articles Facebook Google+ Twitter Linkedin YouTube Home Tutorials Library Coding Ground Tutor Connect Videos Search Swift Tutorial Swift - Home Swift - Overview Swift - Environment Swift - Basic Syntax Swift - Data Types Swift - Variables Swift - Optionals Swift - Constants Swift - Literals Swift - Operators Swift - Decision Making Swift - Loops Swift - Strings Swift - Characters Swift - Arrays Swift - Dictionaries Swift - Functions Swift - Closures Swift - Enumerations Swift - Structures Swift - Classes Swift - Properties Swift - Methods Swift - Subscripts Swift - Inheritance Swift - Initialization Swift - Deinitialization Swift - ARC Overview Swift - Optional Chaining Swift - Type Casting Swift - Extensions Swift - Protocols Swift - Generics Swift - Access Control Swift Useful Resources Swift - Quick Guide Swift - Useful Resources Swift - Discussion Selected Reading Developer's Best Practices Questions and Answers Effective Resume Writing HR Interview Questions Computer Glossary Who is Who Swift - Decision Making Advertisements Previous Page Next Page   Decision making structures require that the programmer specifies one or more conditions to be evaluated or tested by the program, along with a statement or statements to be executed if the condition is determined to be true, and optionally, other statements to be executed if the condition is determined to be false. Following is the general from of a typical decision making structure found in most of the programming languages ? Swift provides the following types of decision making statements. Click the following links to check their detail. S.No Statement & Description 1 if statement An if statement consists of a Boolean expression followed by one or more statements. 2 if...else statement An if statement can be followed by an optional else statement, which executes when the Boolean expression is false. 3 if...else if...else Statement An if statement can be followed by an optional else if...else statement, which is very useful to test various conditions using single if...else if statement. 4 nested if statements You can use one if or else if statement inside another if or else if statement(s). 5 switch statement A switch statement allows a variable to be tested for equality against a list of values. The ? : Operator We have covered conditional operator ? : in the previous chapter which can be used to replace if...else statements. It has the following general form ? 
Exp1 ? Exp2 : Exp3;
 Where Exp1, Exp2, and Exp3 are expressions. Notice the use and placement of the colon. The value of a ? expression is determined like this: Exp1 is evaluated. If it is true, then Exp2 is evaluated and becomes the value of the entire ? expression. If Exp1 is false, then Exp3 is evaluated and its value becomes the value of the expression. Previous Page Print Next Page   Advertisements Write for us FAQ's Helping Contact © Copyright 2017. All Rights Reserved. go