Swift Comparison Operators Jobs  SENDFiles  Whiteboard  Net Meeting Tools  Articles Facebook Google+ Twitter Linkedin YouTube Home Tutorials Library Coding Ground Tutor Connect Videos Search Swift Tutorial Swift - Home Swift - Overview Swift - Environment Swift - Basic Syntax Swift - Data Types Swift - Variables Swift - Optionals Swift - Constants Swift - Literals Swift - Operators Swift - Decision Making Swift - Loops Swift - Strings Swift - Characters Swift - Arrays Swift - Dictionaries Swift - Functions Swift - Closures Swift - Enumerations Swift - Structures Swift - Classes Swift - Properties Swift - Methods Swift - Subscripts Swift - Inheritance Swift - Initialization Swift - Deinitialization Swift - ARC Overview Swift - Optional Chaining Swift - Type Casting Swift - Extensions Swift - Protocols Swift - Generics Swift - Access Control Swift Useful Resources Swift - Quick Guide Swift - Useful Resources Swift - Discussion Selected Reading Developer's Best Practices Questions and Answers Effective Resume Writing HR Interview Questions Computer Glossary Who is Who Swift - Comparison Operators Advertisements Previous Page Next Page   The following table shows all the relational operators supported by Swift language. Assume variable A holds 10 and variable B holds 20, then ? Operator Description Example == Checks if the values of two operands are equal or not; if yes, then the condition becomes true. (A == B) is not true. != Checks if the values of two operands are equal or not; if values are not equal, then the condition becomes true. (A != B) is true. > Checks if the value of left operand is greater than the value of right operand; if yes, then the condition becomes true. (A > B) is not true. < Checks if the value of left operand is less than the value of right operand; if yes, then the condition becomes true. (A < B) is true. >= Checks if the value of left operand is greater than or equal to the value of right operand; if yes, then the condition becomes true. (A >= B) is not true. <= Checks if the value of left operand is less than or equal to the value of right operand; if yes, then the condition becomes true. (A <= B) is true. Previous Page Print Next Page   swift_operators.htm Advertisements Write for us FAQ's Helping Contact © Copyright 2017. All Rights Reserved. go