Swift Overview Jobs  SENDFiles  Whiteboard  Net Meeting Tools  Articles Facebook Google+ Twitter Linkedin YouTube Home Tutorials Library Coding Ground Tutor Connect Videos Search Swift Tutorial Swift - Home Swift - Overview Swift - Environment Swift - Basic Syntax Swift - Data Types Swift - Variables Swift - Optionals Swift - Constants Swift - Literals Swift - Operators Swift - Decision Making Swift - Loops Swift - Strings Swift - Characters Swift - Arrays Swift - Dictionaries Swift - Functions Swift - Closures Swift - Enumerations Swift - Structures Swift - Classes Swift - Properties Swift - Methods Swift - Subscripts Swift - Inheritance Swift - Initialization Swift - Deinitialization Swift - ARC Overview Swift - Optional Chaining Swift - Type Casting Swift - Extensions Swift - Protocols Swift - Generics Swift - Access Control Swift Useful Resources Swift - Quick Guide Swift - Useful Resources Swift - Discussion Selected Reading Developer's Best Practices Questions and Answers Effective Resume Writing HR Interview Questions Computer Glossary Who is Who Swift - Overview Advertisements Previous Page Next Page   Swift is a new programming language developed by Apple Inc for iOS and OS X development. Swift adopts the best of C and Objective-C, without the constraints of C compatibility. Swift makes use of safe programming patterns. Swift provides modern programming features. Swift provides Objective-C like syntax. Swift is a fantastic way to write iOS and OS X apps. Swift provides seamless access to existing Cocoa frameworks. Swift unifies the procedural and object-oriented portions of the language. Swift does not need a separate library import to support functionalities like input/output or string handling. Swift uses the same runtime as the existing Obj-C system on Mac OS and iOS, which enables Swift programs to run on many existing iOS 6 and OS X 10.8 platforms. Swift comes with playground feature where Swift programmers can write their code and execute it to see the results immediately. The first public release of Swift was released in 2010. It took Chris Lattner almost 14 years to come up with the first official version, and later, it was supported by many other contributors. Swift has been included in Xcode 6 beta. Swift designers took ideas from various other popular languages such as Objective-C, Rust, Haskell, Ruby, Python, C#, and CLU. Previous Page Print Next Page   Advertisements Write for us FAQ's Helping Contact © Copyright 2017. All Rights Reserved. go